
Type: Opinion 3 Are the advantages more than the disadvantages
##### New words 

##### Spelling
possibilities
##### Outline
Introduction 
	Background - Globalisation gives humanity the extraordinary possibility to have goods from all around the world for relatively cheap prices. 
	Thesis - However, I think the disadvantages outweigh the advantages of global markets. 
Body
	first paragraph 
		topic sentence- Firstly, Shipping by air or sea is connected with ecology damage. 
		2 advantages or disadvantages - Avocado and mango have to be transported by a plain or a ship, which releases devastating amounts of carbon dioxide and other chemicals into the atmosphere. 
	second paragraph
		topic sentence - Secondly, The number of people dependent on the global market is gradually increasing.
		2 advantages or disadvantages - The war in Ukraine shows the dependence of some poor countries on the food supply from big agricultural nations such as Ukraine and Russia. It is cheaper to buy food from them than to develop their big farms.
	third paragraph
		topic sentence - On the other hand, the interconnections increase workplace and economic possibilities for businesses from different parts of the world.  
Conclusion: The restatement: Restate your answer
##### Essay
Globalisation gives humanity the extraordinary possibility to have goods from all around the world for relatively cheap prices. However, I think the disadvantages outweigh the advantages of global markets. 
Firstly, Shipping by air or sea is connected with ecological damage. Avocado and mango have to be transported by a plain or a ship, which releases devastating amounts of carbon dioxide and other chemicals into the atmosphere. 
Secondly, The number of people dependent on the global market is gradually increasing. The war in Ukraine shows the dependence of some poor countries on the food supply from big agricultural nations such as Ukraine and Russia. It is cheaper to buy food from them than to develop their big farms.
On the other hand, the interconnections increase workplace and economic possibilities for businesses from different parts of the world. In addition, a global base economy gives the possibility to exchange complex technologies between countries.
##### GPT correction



