Title: high content imaging and autism
Tags: #reading_note 


# Notes
Next-generation sequencing has identified risk genes with large effect sizes for autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Although functional analysis of individual risk genes has progressed, the overall picture of ASD pathogenesis is unclear. Therefore, there is a need for morphological profiling of variants in these genes to fully comprehend their pathomechanism in cultured cells. High-content analysis (HCA) is a powerful approach to thoroughly analyze cellular alterations following genetic modifications in many disorders, including ASD. We begin this review with the latest phenotypic descriptions of ASD risk variants and different ASD cell models, which provide a basis to select features for extraction in image-based analysis to best capture ASD mechanisms. We then describe recent genetic and pharmacological screening campaigns for ASD using HCA systems. Generally, HCA enables imaging of ASD-derived cell models using measurements such as cell proliferation, differentiation, process growth, synapse numbers, and other morphological changes to neurons, astrocytes, and microglia. Advances in machine learning are reducing bias in feature identification and extraction. These data can be transformed for downstream analyses and visualization, such as clustering using heatmaps for morphological profiling. This provides image-based profiling data that can be used to determine the mechanisms of action of genetic modifications. Additionally, comprehensive methods, such as mixture-based and common structure ranking approaches, which can systematically examine the effects of millions of compounds, could identify compounds that might ameliorate the effects of ASD risk gene mutations using morphological profiling.  
.
High-content screening analyzes data from multiwell plates. For genetic screening by HCA, a perturbation is given in wells, and the phenotypes are characterized in each well.29,66,67 Egawa et al. (2022)66 described phenotypic measurements as the average of all neurons in a well, marked multidimensionally with fluorescent staining of the cellular target. This is an attractive, simple, and flexible approach for relatively small-scale genetic screening. Now, large-scale arrayed screens are available for genome-wide CRISPR (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat)-Cas9 used for cancer68 and neuroscience.69 This scalable, high-throughput approach enables the discovery of genes and pathways important for cellular responses under specific conditions.

HCA, using iPSC-CRISPR cultures, has been compared with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and mass spectrometry technologies.29 Recently, mechanisms of action (MOAs) were compared between cell painting and RNA transcription levels for morphological and gene expression profiling. Both assays showed similar cellular profiling feature variance and levels of reproducibility, and a combination of both resulted in complementary MOA prediction by deep learning.70 Previously, a 30,000-compound library was screened by both an image-based approach and a transcriptomic approach, which identified some common hits while each approach identified additional hits missed by the other.71 However, the image-based approach identified about twice as many novel hits as the transcriptomics-based approach, highlighting its effectiveness. These studies reveal that the use of either of these independent assays can profile the phenotypic alterations for genetic perturbagens. Integrating data from both assays using deep learning will give more reliable converged MOAs for these gene perturbagens.

Moreover, integrative omics approaches, such as proteomics and transcriptomics, are frequently employed in genetic screening to reconcile MOAs derived from both phenotypic and omicbased profiles, thereby enhancing the resolutions and interpretative power of the analysis.29,82
# Summary
Decades of research reveals that autism spectrum disorders have broad range of risk genes which have waste range of effects. Combination of high content imaging with multiple genetic perturbation, such as CRISPR library or siRNA, provide valuable tool for neuroscience research. The cutting edge machine learning tools improve the efficient by adding scRNA-seq and proteomics information.
# Links
[[@artaLinkingAutismRisk2025]]