---
tags: 
title: "Systematic Quantification of Population Cell Death Kinetics in Mammalian Cells"
authors: "Giovanni C. Forcina, Megan Conlon, Alex Wells, Jennifer Yinuo Cao, Scott J. Dixon"
---

> [!Cite] 1.

Forcina, G. C., Conlon, M., Wells, A., Cao, J. Y. & Dixon, S. J. Systematic Quantification of Population Cell Death Kinetics in Mammalian Cells. _Cell Syst_ **4**, 600-610.e6 (2017).

>[!md] QAC

>[!md]
> **FirstAuthor**:: Forcina, Giovanni C.  
> **Author**:: Conlon, Megan  
> **Author**:: Wells, Alex  
> **Author**:: Cao, Jennifer Yinuo  
> **Author**:: Dixon, Scott J.  
~    
> **Title**:: Systematic Quantification of Population Cell Death Kinetics in Mammalian Cells  
> **Year**:: 2017   
> **Citekey**:: forcinaSystematicQuantificationPopulation2017  
> **itemType**:: journalArticle  
> **Journal**:: *Cell Systems*  
> **Volume**:: 4  
> **Issue**:: 6   
> **Pages**:: 600-610.e6  
> **DOI**:: 10.1016/j.cels.2017.05.002    

> [!LINK] 
>
>  [Forcina et al. - 2017 - Systematic Quantification of Population Cell Death Kinetics in Mammalian Cells 1.pdf](file:///Users/romankoval/Library/Mobile%20Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Lib/ZotMove_files/Forcina%20et%20al.%20-%202017%20-%20Systematic%20Quantification%20of%20Population%20Cell%20Death%20Kinetics%20in%20Mammalian%20Cells%201.pdf).

> [!Abstract]
>
> Cytotoxic compounds are important drugs and research tools. Here, we introduce a method, scalable time-lapse analysis of cell death kinetics (STACK), to quantify the kinetics of compound-induced cell death in mammalian cells at the population level. STACK uses live and dead cell markers, high-throughput time-lapse imaging, and mathematical modeling to determine the kinetics of population cell death over time. We used STACK to profile the effects of over 1,800 bioactive compounds on cell death in two human cancer cell lines, resulting in a large and freely available dataset. 79 potent lethal compounds common to both cell lines caused cell death with widely divergent kinetics. 13 compounds triggered cell death within hours, including the metallophore zinc pyrithione. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that this rapid onset lethal phenotype was caused in human cancer cells by metabolic disruption and ATP depletion. These results provide the first comprehensive survey of cell death kinetics and analysis of rapid-onset lethal compounds.
>.
>
### Ideas, thoughts, useful information

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=601&annotation=PXLF8J5V))
> For reasons that remain poorly understood, cell death kinetics vary considerably between lethal stimuli, cell lines, and cell death pathways, as well as between individual cells within the same population (Bernheim et al., 1977; Biton and Ashkenazi, 2011; Dixon et al., 2012; Lu et al., 2014; Shimizu et al., 2004; Spencer et al., 2009; Vanden Berghe et al., 2010). 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 4](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=603&annotation=4ASS58GN))
> To quantify cell death kinetics, we parameterized curves of LF scores over time using a ‘‘lag exponential death’’ (LED) model and extracted two key parameter values: the time lag between the addition of a lethal perturbation and the onset of cell death within a population (DO) and the maximal cell death rate within the population (DR) (Figures 2A and S2A) (STAR Methods). 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 14](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=613&annotation=BHF2UBI6))
> Acquisition of Population Images  In our current implementation, live and dead cell counts were obtained over time using an IncuCyte Zoom dual color live content imaging system (Model 4459, Essen BioSciences, Ann Arbor, USA) residing within a Thermo tissue culture incubator maintained at 37 C with 5% CO2. Data were acquired using a 10x objective lens in phase contrast, green fluorescence (ex: 460 ± 20, em: 524 ± 20, acquisition time: 400 ms) and red fluorescence (ex: 585 ± 20, em: 665 ± 40, acquisition time: 800 ms) channels. Images (1392 x 1040 pixels at 1.22 mm/pixel) were acquired from each well at set time intervals. Data acquisition time per well was less than two seconds. 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 15](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=614&annotation=ZSBDHTIP))
> Lethal Fraction Scoring  At any given time point n in a treatment time course (t = 0 / t = n), the lethal fraction (LF) is given by Equation 1.  LFt = n = 1 mKate2 +  t=n  SGm+axt = 0 / t = n + mKate2 +  t=n  (Equation 1)  Some treatments result in the loss of SG+ signals from long dead cell corpses. Thus, when computing the lethal fraction at a given time the maximum number of SG+ objects from the start of that experiment is used. This equation does not consider SG+/mKate2+ double-positive cells separately. Large numbers of persistent SG+/mKate2+ double-positive cells would lead to an underestimation of cell death. This potential confound must be accounted for when optimizing image segmentation and counting routines for each cell line. The maximum lethal fraction, hereafter LFmax, equals to the highest individual LF score at any point in a time course and is extracted directly from a set of LF scores over time by applying the MAX function in Microsoft Excel 14.6.0 (Microsoft). Area under the curve values were computed from LF curves over time using the trapezoidal method implemented in Prism 6.0h (GraphPad Software, Inc). 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 15](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=614&annotation=VR3GQU6M))
> Parameterization Using the Lag Exponential Death (LED) Model  LF scores over time were parameterization using the LED model given by Equation 2:  LFðtÞ = LF0 + ðLFP LF0Þ 1 e DRðt DOÞ (Equation 2)  Where t is time, DO is the time at which the exponential increase in LF begins, LF0 is the average LF value up to DO, LFP is the plateau LF value, and DR is the maximum cell death rate. These calculations were performed using the plateau followed by one-phase association function in Prism 6.0h (GraphPad Software), with DO unconstrained and LFP constrained to be % 1. LF0 was also left unconstrained and can be non-zero due to background (basal) levels of cell death within a population, or in response to compounds that initiate substantial cell death by the first measurement (e.g. ROLs). Three notes: (i) LFP approximate but do not equal LFmax values derived directly from LF scores over time. LPP values are obtained from curves successfully fit with the LED model, and they cannot be obtained in cases where the LED model produces ambiguous fits. Thus, in this work we typically report the exact LFmax values; (ii) different absolute levels of cell death (i.e. LFP) can be associated with the same DO or DR values. Fits flagged as ambiguous is Prism were not used in these analyses. Fits to other models (e.g. sigmoidal) were likewise examined using Prism 6.0h. 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 16](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=615&annotation=Y8Q8E2EG))
> Data Processing  All STACK data were exported as counts of SG+ and mKate2+ objects/mm2 and data files from each plate were re-organized using R (r-project.org) and then analyzed further using Excel and Prism 6.0h. Eight library compounds that generated significant green background fluorescence in T98GN cells were identified by visual inspection of wells with high apparent starting SG+ counts (>50 Obj/mm2 at t = 0 or 4 h) in the absence of evident cell death, as judged by mKate2+ counts at t = 0 or 4 h, and removed from further analysis (PHA-665752, idarubicin HCl, TSU-68, quinacrine 2HCl, Ro 31-8220 mesylate, daunorubicin HCl, sunitinib malate, SU11274 and nintedanib). In the U-2 OSN experiment, seven compounds were removed from the analysis for this reason (nintedanib, PHA-665752, TSU-68, idarubicin HCl, SB216763, SU11274 and Ro 31-8220 mesylate). From both experiments we also eliminated a small number of wells where variation in cell seeding resulted in < 50 or > 400 mKate2+ Obj/mm2 at t = 0. We confirmed by ROUT analysis ((Motulsky and Brown, 2006), Q = 1%) that this resulted in datasets free from cell number outliers. 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 16](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=615&annotation=TV728PCS))
> Identification of High Confidence Lethal Compounds in U-2 OSN and T98GN Cells  For each screen the set of DMSO control populations (n = 79 for U-2 OSN, n = 87 for T98GN) distributed throughout all five assay plates were used as negative controls and, more specifically, as a means to assess background cell death (e.g. due to nutrient depletion and overcrowding). These DMSO controls were normally distributed (D’Agostino & Pearson omnibus normality test, P > 0.05) and therefore compounds with LFmax scores > 3 standard deviations (SD) from the mean of the DMSO controls were considered high confidence lethal compounds. For the T98GN + DMSO experiment this corresponded to LFmax thresholds of 0.578, 0.514, 0.402, 0.554 and 0.595 for plates one to five, respectively; in U-2 OSN cells the corresponding thresholds were 0.073, 0.104, 0.103, 0.079 and 0.087 for plates one to five, respectively. The low values in the U-2 OSN experiment reflected the limited cell death experienced by U-2 OSN populations over the course of the experiment. Our goal was to examine only those compounds that produced substantial lethality within the timeframes of the experiments. Therefore, to arrive at a final list of candidate lethal compounds we applied a minimum LFmax > 0.5 cut-off to select only those compounds exhibiting at least 50% cell death. This eliminated four compounds from plate three in the T98GN experiment, and a large number of compounds from the U-2 OSN experiment with LFmax values greater than the plate-specific 3xSD LFmax thresholds, but below 0.5. These weaker lethal compounds were not studied further here. 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 16](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=615&annotation=MERD22F8))
> Comparative Analysis of Cell Death Kinetics in U-2 OSN and T98GN Cells  140 high-confidence lethal compounds were identified in both U-2 OSN and T98GN experiments. 80 were common to both experiments, referred to as common high-confidence lethal compounds. LED models produced unambiguous fits to LF scores over time for 139/140 compounds in U-2 OSN and 136/140 compounds in in T98GN. Three compounds (elaiophylin, BGT226 and dioscin) triggered cell death with an essentially instantaneous onset in T98GN cells, resulting in ambiguous fits. Because these compounds were clearly highly lethal, they were arbitrarily assigned DO values = 1 h and included in the set of high confidence lethal compounds for this cell line. Despite the ambiguous curve fits, manual inspection indicated that the computed DR values were representative of the initial maximal rate of cell death for these three compounds and used in subsequent comparative analyses. 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 16](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=615&annotation=2CGF3LZ8))
> Estimation of Expected Drug Combination Effects  From LF curves we computed AUC and LFmax values for populations treated with DMSO alone (D), library compound alone (L) or TMZ alone (T). LFmax and AUC values are obtained directly from LF scores and do not require curve fitting, which is inappropriate for conditions that induce minimal lethality. Using either AUC or LFmax values as inputs, we computed the expected compound interaction (CIe) between TMZ and each library compound using the formula: CIe = L + (T-D). DAUC and DLFmax values were computed as the difference between the expected interaction, CIe, computed as described above, and the observed AUC or LFmax for the combination of TMZ and each library compound. Enhancing interactions had positive DAUC and DLFmax values and suppressive interactions had negative DAUC and DLFmax values. Significant compound interactions were identified using two methods. In one method, DAUC and DLFmax scores for the 87 control conditions were used to establish 99% confidence thresholds (mean + 3 standard deviations) resulting in thresholds of jDAUCj > 8.8, jDLFmaxj > 0.23. When applied to our dataset, these thresholds excluded all control treatments, as expected. The second method, DAUC values for each compound were used as input for CSEA analysis, as described below. 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 16](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=615&annotation=J5YCHKX8))
> Compound Set Enrichment Analysis (CSEA)  CSEA was performed as described (Liu et al., 2013; Shaw et al., 2011). From the library of 1,833 bioactive compounds, 428 have no known mammalian target. Of the remaining 1,405 compounds, we could assign 1,082 into one of 70 different target classes with R 5 members (median = 10.5) on the basis of known or putative molecular targets. Target assignments were made on the basis of manual annotation of each compound, together with information provided by the library supplier (SelleckChem). For the purposes of CSEA, compounds were assigned to single groups on the basis of the best target (i.e. target against which the compound showed the greatest potency) using data made available on the SelleckChem website. Certain inhibitors were grouped into larger superfamilies (receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) inhibitors or non-receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (NRTK)). These and other compounds likely inhibit more than one target in cells. For CSEA analysis we did not remove compounds whose behavior were outliers relative to other members of the same group (e.g. epoxomicin relative to other proteasome inhibitors). CSEA analysis was performed using the GSEAPreranked module (genepattern.broadinstitute.org). LFmax values were used in separate analyses as ranking variables. Default 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 17](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=616&annotation=CDNJYG7V))
> Identification of Rapid Onset Lethal (ROL) and Slow Onset Lethal (SOL) Compounds  ROL and SOL compounds were identified using data collected from the profiling of the 1,833-member bioactive compound library in T98GN and U-2 OSN populations, described above. LF curves for all high-confidence lethal compounds identified in both experiments were parameterized using LED models and DO parameter values extracted. As noted, certain compounds were near-instantaneously lethal in T98GN cells (BGT226, elaiophylin, dioscin), as determined by visual inspection. DO values could not be computed and in these cases DO were arbitrarily set to 1 h. Compounds were ranked according to DO values and those in the bottom 25% percentile were considered ROL compounds, while those above the 75% percentile were considered SOL compounds. 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 17](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=616&annotation=SFZX75QN))
> Analysis of ROL Cell Death Modulatability  Modulatability of cell death was assessed using WTN and DKON MEFs. Cells were treated with lethal compounds and monitored every 2 h for 48 h using STACK. Lethal compounds were tested in 10-point, 2-fold dose-response series: elaiophylin (high concentration: 20 mM), BGT226 (high concentration: 20 mM), pacritinib (high concentration: 20 mM), zinc pyrithione (ZP, high concentration: 20 mM). Btz (high concentration: 1 mM) and erastin (high concentration: 20 mM) served as controls for apoptotic and non-apoptotic cell death. Cell death with and without the pan-caspase inhibitor Q-VD-OPh was also analyzed every 2 h for 48 h using STACK and the following concentration of each ROL or control compound: elaiophylin (312 nM), BGT226 (312 nM), pacritinib (5 mM), zinc pyrithione (1.25 mM), bortezomib (200 nM) or erastin (63 nM). LF scores and AUC values were computed for each compound concentration as described above. 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 17](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/DNPK7HQ7?page=616&annotation=E6VY9F8V))
> Seahorse Assay  Metabolic profiles over time were analyzed using Seahorse technology. A549N or T98GN cells were seeded at 10,000 cells/well into Seahorse XFp cell culture miniplates in a final volume of 80 mL, briefly spun at 500 RPM, and allowed to settle overnight at 37 C and 5% CO2. 200 mL of XF calibrant (pH 7.4) was added to an XFp extracellular flux cartridge and left at 37 C in the absence of CO2. The next day, cells were washed twice with 200 mL of Seahorse medium (XF Base Medium Minimal DMEM, 25 mM glucose, 1.0 mM sodium pyruvate, 4 mM glutamine, pH 7.4). After washing, each well was incubated in 180 mL Seahorse medium. At this point, the wells were imaged using the IncuCyte to obtain mKate2+ live cell counts that were used for normalization. The cell culture miniplate was allowed to incubate at 37 C in the absence of CO2 for one hour prior to the beginning of the experiment. Test compounds were prepared at 10x in Seahorse medium in a final volume of 20 mL in the XFp extracellular flux cartridge to be injected later in the experiment. Oxygen consumption rate (OCR) and extracellular acidification rate (ECAR) was monitored every six minutes for 60 minutes pre-compound injection and for 420 minutes post-compound injection (FCCP/Oligomycin stressor mix final concentration = 2/1 mM and ZP final concentration = 10 mM). ZP-induced cell death was not appreciable over the course of this experiment and OCR and ECAR were therefore normalized to cell number at t = 0, measured by counting live cell numbers by imaging (see above). A


Maybe death is binary at the end, but the dying  is prolonged and complicated. Even when perturbations are uniformly lethal, cell-death kinetics are shaped by pathway choice, cell-intrinsic variability, and microenvironment. STACK (scalable time-lapse analysis of cell death kinetics) models lethal-fraction (LF) trajectories using a lag–exponential death form and extracts two parameters: D₀ (lag to death onset) and Dᴿ (maximal death rate). This compact summary captures tempo, not just extent, of killing. However, LF readouts based on membrane-impermeant dyes (SYTOX, PI, DRAQ7) mostly report necrosis or post-apoptotic secondary necrosis and cannot disambiguate which pathway killed a cell. Because cells within one line can die via different mechanisms, single-cell, pathway-resolved analysis is required to improve the kinetics model beyond a single curve.

[[HTI and regulated necrosis]]