---
tags: 
title: "Epileptic brain fluorescent imaging reveals apigenin can relieve the myeloperoxidase-mediated oxidative stress and inhibit ferroptosis"
authors: "Chenwen Shao, Jiwen Yuan, Yani Liu, Yajuan Qin, Xueao Wang, Jin Gu, Guiquan Chen, Bing Zhang, Hong-Ke Liu, Jing Zhao, Hai-Liang Zhu, Yong Qian"
---

> [!Cite] 1.

Shao, C. _et al._ Epileptic brain fluorescent imaging reveals apigenin can relieve the myeloperoxidase-mediated oxidative stress and inhibit ferroptosis. _Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A_ **117**, 10155–10164 (2020).

>[!md] QAC

>[!md]
> **FirstAuthor**:: Shao, Chenwen  
> **Author**:: Yuan, Jiwen  
> **Author**:: Liu, Yani  
> **Author**:: Qin, Yajuan  
> **Author**:: Wang, Xueao  
> **Author**:: Gu, Jin  
> **Author**:: Chen, Guiquan  
> **Author**:: Zhang, Bing  
> **Author**:: Liu, Hong-Ke  
> **Author**:: Zhao, Jing  
> **Author**:: Zhu, Hai-Liang  
> **Author**:: Qian, Yong  
~    
> **Title**:: Epileptic brain fluorescent imaging reveals apigenin can relieve the myeloperoxidase-mediated oxidative stress and inhibit ferroptosis  
> **Year**:: 2020   
> **Citekey**:: shaoEpilepticBrainFluorescent2020  
> **itemType**:: journalArticle  
> **Journal**:: *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America*  
> **Volume**:: 117  
> **Issue**:: 19   
> **Pages**:: 10155-10164  
> **DOI**:: 10.1073/pnas.1917946117    

> [!LINK] 
>
>  [Shao et al. - 2020 - Epileptic brain fluorescent imaging reveals apigenin can relieve the myeloperoxidase-mediated oxidat 1.pdf](file:///Users/romankoval/Library/Mobile%20Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Lib/ZotMove_files/Shao%20et%20al.%20-%202020%20-%20Epileptic%20brain%20fluorescent%20imaging%20reveals%20apigenin%20can%20relieve%20the%20myeloperoxidase-mediated%20oxidat%201.pdf).

> [!Abstract]
>
> Myeloperoxidase (MPO)-mediated oxidative stress has been suggested to play an important role in the pathological dysfunction of epileptic brains. However, there is currently no robust brain-imaging tool to detect real-time endogenous hypochlorite (HClO) generation by MPO or a fluorescent probe for rapid high-throughput screening of antiepileptic agents that control the MPO-mediated chlorination stress. Herein, we report an efficient two-photon fluorescence probe (named HCP) for the real-time detection of endogenous HClO signals generated by MPO in the brain of kainic acid (KA)-induced epileptic mice, where HClO-dependent chlorination of quinolone fluorophore gives the enhanced fluorescence response. With this probe, we visualized directly the endogenous HClO fluxes generated by the overexpression of MPO activity in vivo and ex vivo in mouse brains with epileptic behaviors. Notably, by using HCP, we have also constructed a high-throughput screening approach to rapidly screen the potential antiepileptic agents to control MPO-mediated oxidative stress. Moreover, from this screen, we identified that the flavonoid compound apigenin can relieve the MPO-mediated oxidative stress and inhibit the ferroptosis of neuronal cells. Overall, this work provides a versatile fluorescence tool for elucidating the role of HClO generation by MPO in the pathology of epileptic seizures and for rapidly discovering additional antiepileptic agents to prevent and treat epilepsy.
>.
>
### Ideas, thoughts, useful information

> [!quote]+ Note ([Page ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/3BH6B7BA?page=10155&annotation=ESBCE9WY))
  **Myeloperoxidase-mediated oxidative stress play a role in epileptic brains. Inhibition of MPO-mediated ROS decrease ferroptosis.**

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/3BH6B7BA?page=10156&annotation=86X6JYRF))
> Importantly, in combination with high-content analysis (HCA) and HCP, a simple and efficient high-throughput screening (HTS) platform was first developed for screening antiepileptic agents to efficiently control the release of MPO-generated HClO and chlorinated stress in live cells. I 
  **It is give significant advantages, but also reduce usage of significant amount of microscope construct for high-content imaging.**

Evidence suggests that ferroptosis plays an important role in neuronal death during epilepsy. One of the key pathways associated with this is myeloperoxidase-mediated oxidative stress. Inhibition of this pathway shows promising therapeutic effects. In order to facilitate drug discovery, Chenwen and colleagues proposed a novel two-photon fluorescence probe, named HCP. Also, high-content screening and HCP provide great efficiency in finding antiepileptic agents with the ability to reduce MPO-generated oxidative stress. However, its use is limited by the fact that most high-content imaging systems lack two-photon excitation capability, restricting broader application in automated drug screening workflows.

[[HTI and regulated necrosis]]
### Questions, things that I didn't understand

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/3BH6B7BA?page=10155&annotation=H2M6FUHD))
> two-photon fluorescence probe 
  **What is the two-photon fluorescence probe?**
