---
tags: 
title: "Spatiotemporal evidence of apoptosis-mediated ischemic injury in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures"
authors: "Seongeun Cho, Danni Liu, Denise Fairman, Ping Li, Lorayne Jenkins, Paul McGonigle, Andrew Wood"
---

> [!Cite] 1.

Cho, S. _et al._ Spatiotemporal evidence of apoptosis-mediated ischemic injury in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. _Neurochem Int_ **45**, 117–127 (2004).

>[!md]
> **FirstAuthor**:: Cho, Seongeun  
> **Author**:: Liu, Danni  
> **Author**:: Fairman, Denise  
> **Author**:: Li, Ping  
> **Author**:: Jenkins, Lorayne  
> **Author**:: McGonigle, Paul  
> **Author**:: Wood, Andrew  
~    
> **Title**:: Spatiotemporal evidence of apoptosis-mediated ischemic injury in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures  
> **Year**:: 2004   
> **Citekey**:: Cho-2004  
> **itemType**:: journalArticle  
> **Journal**:: *Neurochemistry International*  
> **Volume**:: 45  
> **Issue**:: 1   
> **Pages**:: 117-127  
> **DOI**:: 10.1016/j.neuint.2003.11.012    

> [!LINK] 
>
>  [Cho et al. - 2004 - Spatiotemporal evidence of apoptosis-mediated ischemic injury in organotypic hippocampal slice cultu.pdf](file:///Users/romankoval/Library/Mobile%20Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Lib/ZotMove_files/Cho%20et%20al.%20-%202004%20-%20Spatiotemporal%20evidence%20of%20apoptosis-mediated%20ischemic%20injury%20in%20organotypic%20hippocampal%20slice%20cultu.pdf).

> [!Abstract]
>
> Oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) induced neuron-specific cell death in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. Neuronal death was first evident in the CA1 region 24 h after the injury as assessed by propidium iodide (PI) labeling, and continued to extend to the CA3/4 region up to 72 h. At 6 days post-OGD, PI labeling was weak and diffuse with no clear demarcation of pyknotic nuclei. To characterize biochemical changes produced by OGD, cellular efflux of three key amino acid neurotransmitters was evaluated. OGD elicited large increases in the release of GABA and aspartate (55- and 4.5-fold increase over basal, respectively), while there were no detectable changes in extracellular glutamate levels. In order to ascertain the existence of the synaptic pool of glutamate, sister cultures were treated with sodium azide. This evoked a strong increase in glutamate release, suggesting the intactness of the glutamate system. Further studies revealed a time-dependent activation of caspase 3 following OGD, shown by immunoblot analysis as well as by confocal laser scanning microscopy. While we did not observe the activation of caspases 1, 2, or 8 in our model, the activation of caspase 9 was evident, peaking at 12 h post-OGD. Despite no apparent increase in glutamate release by ischemic slices, treatment with a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist or an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) antagonist significantly reduced neuronal death. Furthermore, a pan-caspase inhibitor (zVAD-fmk), but not the caspase 3 inhibitor (DEVD-fmk), provided partial neuroprotection. Inhibition of a Ca(2+)-dependent cysteine protease, calpain, by MDL28170 also elicited partial neuroprotective effects.
>.
>
### Table of context

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/C7X9AEMH?page=119&annotation=WB6MEFHH))
> OGD induced a delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 and CA3 regions with different temporal profiles 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/C7X9AEMH?page=119&annotation=C7YEIQUK))
> Histological analysis of slice cultures by thionin staining 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 4](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/C7X9AEMH?page=120&annotation=SJM7B65E))
> Evaluation of neurotransmitter release upon OGD 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 5](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/C7X9AEMH?page=121&annotation=6N6U2MET))
> Activation of caspases by the OGD injury in slice cultures 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 5](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/C7X9AEMH?page=121&annotation=UFYDSVZT))
> Neuroprotection analysis 
### Ideas, thoughts, useful information

> [!quote]+ Note ([Page 9](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/C7X9AEMH?page=125&annotation=8Y2UMVXT))
  **Intrinsic apoptosis plays an important role in neuronal death during I/R injury. However, the complete blocking of caspase rescue significantly but not all cells from death.**