---
tags:
  - article
title: 
authors:
---

> [!Cite]
> 1. Feng, T. _et al._ The p38/CYLD Pathway is Involved in Necroptosis Induced by Oxygen-glucose Deprivation Combined with ZVAD in Primary Cortical Neurons. _Neurochem Res_ **42**, 2294–2304 (2017).

>[!Synth]
>**Contribution**:: 
>
>**Related**:: 
>

>[!md]
> **FirstAuthor**:: Feng, Tao  
> **Author**:: Chen, WeiWei  
> **Author**:: Zhang, CaiYi  
> **Author**:: Xiang, Jie  
> **Author**:: Ding, HongMei  
> **Author**:: Wu, LianLian  
> **Author**:: Geng, DeQin  
~    
> **Title**:: The p38/CYLD Pathway is Involved in Necroptosis Induced by Oxygen-glucose Deprivation Combined with ZVAD in Primary Cortical Neurons  
> **Year**:: 2017   
> **Citekey**:: Feng-2017  
> **itemType**:: journalArticle  
> **Journal**:: *Neurochemical Research*  
> **Volume**:: 42  
> **Issue**:: 8   
> **Pages**:: 2294-2304  
> **DOI**:: 10.1007/s11064-017-2244-6    

> [!LINK] 
>
>  [Feng et al. - 2017 - The p38CYLD Pathway is Involved in Necroptosis Induced by Oxygen-glucose Deprivation Combined with.pdf](file:///Users/romankoval/Library/Mobile%20Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Lib/ZotMove_files/Feng%20et%20al.%20-%202017%20-%20The%20p38CYLD%20Pathway%20is%20Involved%20in%20Necroptosis%20Induced%20by%20Oxygen-glucose%20Deprivation%20Combined%20with.pdf).

> [!Abstract]
>
> Recently, necroptosis, a form of programmed necrosis, has been widely studied. It has previously been shown that knockout of lysine 63 deubiquitinase CYLD significantly inhibits necroptosis in other cell lines, and serum response factor (SRF) could regulate CYLD gene expression through p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK). In the following study, we show oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) combined with a caspase inhibitor, ZVAD (OGD/ZVAD), induced CYLD protein expression in a time-dependent manner. Immunofluorescence studies showed that CYLD was localized strongly to the nucleus and weakly to the cytoplasm of neurons. The expression of CYLD in the cytoplasm, but not in the nucleus, was increased significantly upon OGD treatment. SB203580 (a p38 MAPK inhibitor) protected against neuronal injury induced by OGD/ZVAD treatment. More importantly, SB203580 decreased CYLD protein levels by inhibiting SRF phosphorylation and indirectly prevented SRF from binding to a CYLD promoter. We also found that cells with knockdown of SRF by short interfering RNA in a lentivirus vector tolerated OGD/ZVAD-induced necroptosis, when the expression of CYLD protein decreased. The results show that SB203580 prevented necroptosis induced by OGD/ZVAD injury by blocking a p38/CYLD dependent pathway.
>.
> 
# Notes
CYLD and p38 may play some role in necroptosis, but they fail to prove it due to a lack of reagent associated with necroptosis.
[[p38 and necroptosis]]

# Annotations%% begin annotations %%



### Imported: 2025-02-10 11:30 am



<mark style="background-color: #ffd400">Quote</mark>
RIP1 is a serine/threonine kinase and Heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90)related kinase, which induces nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) and MAPK activation through tumor necrosis factor receptor1 (TNFR1), and participates in TNFR1, FAS (CD95), tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL), and other receptor-induced cell death signaling pathways [3, 4].

<mark style="background-color: #e56eee">Quote</mark>
[[CYLD]]

<mark style="background-color: #a28ae5">Quote</mark>
[[SB203580]]

<mark style="background-color: #ffd400">Quote</mark>
Previous studies have shown that p38 regulates ischemia–reperfusion injury and plays key roles both in vivo and in vitro [14].

<mark style="background-color: #ffd400">Quote</mark>
Oxygen-Glucose Deprivation  Cortical neurons cultured for 14 days were washed with glucose free Earle’s Balanced Salt Solution (EBSS) and then were placed into an incubator filled with an anaerobic gas mixture (95% N2 and 5% CO2) at 37 °C for 2 h.  The cells were then incubated under normal conditions. After reoxygenation, glucose-free EBSS was replaced with neurobasal medium.

<mark style="background-color: #ff6666">Quote</mark>
The Expression of CYLD in Neurons After OGD/ ZVAD-Induced Cortical Neuronal Necroptosis

<mark style="background-color: #ff6666">Quote</mark>
SB203580 Improves the Viability of Cortical Neuronal Necroptosis Induced by OGD/ZVAD

<mark style="background-color: #ff6666">Quote</mark>
The Mechanism of CYLD Regulation by SB203580




<mark style="background-color: #ffd400">Quote</mark>
. Studies have confirmed that downregulating RIP1 in neurons by interfering with its proper folding significantly reduced the rate of cell necroptosis [34].

<mark style="background-color: #ffd400">Quote</mark>
Studies also have shown that CYLD participates in RIP1-dependent NF-κB activation [35], and downregulating CYLD significantly reduced the rate of cell death in TNF-induced necroptosis.

<mark style="background-color: #2ea8e5">Quote</mark>
14. Wang JY, Shum AYC, Ho YJ et al (2003) Oxidative neurotoxicity in rat cerebral cortex neurons: synergistic effects of H2O2 and NO on apoptosis involving activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase and caspase3. J Neurosci Res 72:508–519

<mark style="background-color: #2ea8e5">Quote</mark>
35. Schmid JA, Birbach A (2008) IkB kinase b (IKKb/IKK2/ IKBKB)-A key molecule in signaling to the trans


%% end annotations %%

%% Import Date: 2025-02-10T11:30:30.181+02:00 %%
