---
tags:
  - article
title: "{ title }"
authors: "{ authors }"
---

> [!Cite]
> 1. Luo, S. _et al._ Effect of baicalin on oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced endothelial cell damage. _Neuroreport_ **28**, 299–306 (2017).

>[!Synth]
>**Contribution**:: 
>
>**Related**:: 
>

>[!md]
> **FirstAuthor**:: Luo, Si  
> **Author**:: Li, Shi  
> **Author**:: Zhu, Lei  
> **Author**:: Fang, Shu-Huan  
> **Author**:: Chen, Jun-Li  
> **Author**:: Xu, Qing-Qing  
> **Author**:: Li, Hong-Ying  
> **Author**:: Luo, Na-Chuan  
> **Author**:: Yang, Cong  
> **Author**:: Luo, Dan  
> **Author**:: Li, Lin  
> **Author**:: Ma, Xiao-Hui  
> **Author**:: Zhang, Rong  
> **Author**:: Wang, Hong  
> **Author**:: Chen, Yun-Bo  
> **Author**:: Wang, Qi  
~    
> **Title**:: Effect of baicalin on oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced endothelial cell damage.  
> **Year**:: 2017   
> **Citekey**:: Luo-2017  
> **itemType**:: journalArticle  
> **Journal**:: *Neuroreport*  
> **Volume**:: 28  
> **Issue**:: 6   
> **Pages**:: 299-306  
> **DOI**:: 10.1097/WNR.0000000000000749    

> [!LINK] 
>
>  [Luo et al. - 2017 - Effect of baicalin on oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced endothelial cell damage..pdf](file:///Users/romankoval/Library/Mobile%20Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Library%20of%20Alexandria/ZotMove_files/Luo%20et%20al.%20-%202017%20-%20Effect%20of%20baicalin%20on%20oxygen-glucose%20deprivation-induced%20endothelial%20cell%20damage..pdf).

> [!Abstract]
>
> Baicalin, a plant-derived flavonoid, has been reported to exert neuroprotective effects on ischemia-like or excitotoxic injury. To confirm this function and  explore the possible mechanism, we investigated the protective effect of baicalin  on an in-vitro model of ischemia (oxygen-glucose deprivation-treated endothelial  cell). In the present study, we found that baicalin (100 μM) inhibited cell  death, reduced cell membrane damage, and maintained the integrity of the nucleus.  Flow cytometric analysis and Hoechst 33258/propidium iodide double staining  results showed that the necroptosis ratio decreased with baicalin treatment.  Western blot analysis showed that baicalin regulated the expression of RIP-1 and  RIP-3 in bEnd.3 cells and the use of detection kits showed that baicalin  inhibited the production of reactive oxygen species and malondialdehyde, and  increased the activity of superoxide dismutase in oxygen-glucose  deprivation-treated bEnd.3 cells. These results indicated that baicalin  effectively alleviated the oxidative stress, decreased the proportion of cells  undergoing necrosis, and reduced cell damage.
>.
> 
# Notes
[[Necroptosis and endothelial cells ]]

[[Baicalin for some reason increase RIPK3 expression, why?]]
# Annotations%% begin annotations %%



### Imported: 2025-02-10 12:24 pm



<mark style="background-color: #ff6666">Quote</mark>
Baicalin inhibits cell death and reduces the leakage of lactate dehydrogenase

<mark style="background-color: #ff6666">Quote</mark>
Baicalin reduces oxygen–glucose deprivation-induced necroptosis and regulates the expression of RIP-1 and RIP-3 in bEnd.3 cells

<mark style="background-color: #ff6666">Quote</mark>
Baicalin alleviates oxidative stress in oxygen–glucose deprivation-treated bEnd.3 cells








%% end annotations %%

%% Import Date: 2025-02-10T12:24:29.907+02:00 %%
