---
tags:
  - article
title: "Necroptosis molecular mechanisms: Recent findings regarding novel necroptosis regulators"
authors: Jinho Seo, Young Woo Nam, Seongmi Kim, Doo-Byoung Oh, Jaewhan Song
---

> [!Cite] 1.Seo, J., Nam, Y. W., Kim, S., Oh, D.-B. & Song, J. Necroptosis molecular mechanisms: Recent findings regarding novel necroptosis regulators. _Exp Mol Med_ **53**, 1007–1017 (2021).

>[!md]
> **FirstAuthor**:: Seo, Jinho  
> **Author**:: Nam, Young Woo  
> **Author**:: Kim, Seongmi  
> **Author**:: Oh, Doo-Byoung  
> **Author**:: Song, Jaewhan  
~    
> **Title**:: Necroptosis molecular mechanisms: Recent findings regarding novel necroptosis regulators  
> **Year**:: 2021   
> **Citekey**:: Seo-2021  
> **itemType**:: journalArticle  
> **Journal**:: *Experimental & Molecular Medicine*  
> **Volume**:: 53  
> **Issue**:: 6   
> **Pages**:: 1007-1017  
> **DOI**:: 10.1038/s12276-021-00634-7    

> [!LINK] 
>
>  [Seo et al. - 2021 - Necroptosis molecular mechanisms Recent findings regarding novel necroptosis regulators.pdf](file:///Users/romankoval/Library/Mobile%20Documents/com~apple~CloudDocs/Lib/ZotMove_files/Seo%20et%20al.%20-%202021%20-%20Necroptosis%20molecular%20mechanisms%20Recent%20findings%20regarding%20novel%20necroptosis%20regulators.pdf).

> [!Abstract]
>
> Necroptosis is a form of programmed necrosis that is mediated by various cytokines and pattern recognition receptors (PRRs). Cells dying by necroptosis show necrotic phenotypes, including swelling and membrane rupture, and release damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), inflammatory cytokines, and chemokines, thereby mediating extreme inflammatory responses. Studies on gene knockout or necroptosis-specific inhibitor treatment in animal models have provided extensive evidence regarding the important roles of necroptosis in inflammatory diseases. The necroptosis signaling pathway is primarily modulated by activation of receptor-interacting protein kinase 3 (RIPK3), which phosphorylates mixed-lineage kinase domain-like protein (MLKL), mediating MLKL oligomerization. In the necroptosis process, these proteins are fine-tuned by posttranslational regulation via phosphorylation, ubiquitination, glycosylation, and protein–protein interactions. Herein, we review recent findings on the molecular regulatory mechanisms of necroptosis.
>.
>
### Ideas, thoughts, useful information

> [!quote]+ Note ([Page ](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1007&annotation=L5Q9FU2G))
  **Modern nomenclature divides all cell death into two main categories: regulated and accidental cell death.**

[[Cell death classification]]


> [!quote]+ Note ([Page 2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1008&annotation=J7R84BH7))
  **Necrosome, aka complex IIc,  forms by RIPK1, RIPK3, and MLKL.**

[[necrosome]]

> [!quote]+ Note ([Page 2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1008&annotation=BD7A4FMK))
  **Viruses are capable of triggering necroptosis.**

> [!quote]+ Note ([Page 2](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1008&annotation=SWAV65C3))
  **Ischemia-reperfusion injury of many organs, such as the heart, brain, and kidney, recruits necroptosis as an important cell death mechanism.
In addition, inflammatory diseases like atherosclerosis, inflammatory bowel disease, neuroinflammation, and autoimmune disease are strongly connected with it.**

[[necroptosis causes]]

> [!quote]+ Note ([Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1009&annotation=FYTSHDSK))
  **TNF by legation with TNF receptor 1 may recrute different complexes. Complex 1 consists with TNF-receptor-associated factor 2, RIPK1, cIAP1, cIAP2, and LUBAC( linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex. cIAPs and LUBAC promote RIPK1 ubiquitination. This leads to creation of platform that promotes NF-kb and MAPK pathway activation.**

[[Complex I]]

> [!quote]+ Note ([Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1009&annotation=JN2RK3NI))
  **disruption of complex I leads to forming complex II a or b. This complex include Fas-associated protein with death domain (FADD) and caspase-8, with or without RIPK1. Complex 2 usually leads to apoptosis. But disruption of the balance bewteen caspase 8 and RIPK3 leads complex 2 b converts to necrosome.**

> [!quote]+ Note ([Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1009&annotation=WT6TRTYG))
  **RIPK1 and RIPK3 autophosphorylation or cross-phosphorylation followed by the formation of large stucture that recruits MLKL.**


> [!quote]+ Note ([Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1009&annotation=2GBRH3DB))
  **Phosphorylation of MLKL on Thr357 and Ser358 promotes MLKL oligomerization**

> [!quote]+ Note ([Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1009&annotation=594TI4PY))
  **Death receptors, including Fas (also referred to as CD95 or Apo-1), DR3 (also referred to as Apo-3), DR4 (also referred to as Apo-2 or TRAIL-R1), DR5 (also referred to as TRAIL-R2), and DR6 in context of CASP8 inhibition leads to necrosome formation.**

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 3](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1009&annotation=CWI5ECTR))
> In the presence of caspase inhibitors, polyinosinepolycytidylic acid (poly(I:C)) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulate TLR3 and TLR4 activation, respectively, and active TLRs promote the formation of TRIF-mediated necrosome composed of TRIF, RIPK3, and MLKL, thereby inducing necroptosis31,32. Another RHIMcontaining protein, ZBP1 (also referred to as DAI), can also initiate necroptosis in response to viral infection33–35. 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 5](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1011&annotation=5MU7VD6W))
> necroptosis has emerged. RIPK3 is an RHIM domain-containing kinase that forms a complex with other RHIM domain-containing proteins, such as RIPK1, ZBP1, and TRIF, under necroptosis signaling activation6. In a necrosome, RIPK3 is phosphorylated at multiple sites; among these, autophosphorylation of Ser227 of RIPK3 triggers the recruitment of MLKL to the necrosome by forming a hydrogen bond with Ser404 of MLKL, thereby phosphorylating MLKL and triggering necroptosis (Fig. 2)16,71. 

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 6](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1012&annotation=6TGWCAB4))
> Phosphorylated Parkin causes K33-linked polyubiquitination on Lys197, Lys302, and Lys364 of RIPK3, thereby inhibiting necrosome formation (Fig. 2). Loss of Parkin in mice led to an increased incidence of colitis-associated cancer with elevated inflammation induced by DSS, and treatment with GSK′872, a RIPK3 inhibitor, reversed the effect of Parkin deficiency. 
  **Parkin activation leads to polyubiquitination of RIPK3 thereby inhibiting necrosome formation.**

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 6](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1012&annotation=D4SVNP8Z))
> Recently, TYRO3, AXL, and MER receptor kinases (TAMs) were identified as MLKL kinases84. TAMs phosphorylate Tyr376 of MLKL under necroptotic stress, which promotes MLKL oligomerization 

[[TAMs and necroptosis]]

> [!quote]+ Highlight ([Page 6](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/VCG53UMB?page=1012&annotation=MQQPEECC))
> Notably, loss of TAMs attenuated necroptosis without changing the phosphorylation of RIPK1, RIPK3, or Ser358 in MLKL, implying that the phosphorylation of MLKL by TAMs might be the final modification step in the necroptosis process. 