# Morning page
```
1. Chose the question
2. Write for 20 minutes in freestyle
3. Check three parameters through AI
- How clear you write about the topic and who could understand it
- Check spelling and grammar
- How logical it is and how soficticated your resoning
```
[[How can I validate that the selective inhibitors and reagent that I tested inhibited the same cell death pathway]]
How can I validate that the selective inhibitors (small molecules) and reagent that I tested inhibited the same cell death pathway. If the small molecules inhbit the cell death or change the kinetics of the cell death we can assume that this cell death type plays a role in the model. We even can detect multiple forms of cell death using a panel of these small molecules. However, if we want to use this approach with another treatment, we would face a challenge. If combine treatment does not increase effect we have two options: first, they inhibit same cell death pathway, second, the reagent of interest does not have any effect. Could we overcome this issue if we add only the treatment and show that the treatment without inhibitor reduces the cell death. But still we cannot completely eliminate the possibility that the reagent has limited or no effect on the pathway. The ChatGPT gives an interesting suggestion: add a suboptimal concentration of the small molecules. In this case, if my treatment adds to the protection, then it inhibits the pathway, and vice versa.
# Reading and Writing
- [ ] Paper
- [ ] 5 pages of any book
- [ ] Write 300 words
# English 
1. Grammar rule from IELTS [[English Grammar]]
	- [ ] 
2. Set of exercises of the rule by creating sentences, not more than 5 sentences per rule, 4 rules per day
	- [ ] 
