Biochemical analyses of brain homogenates from PA-treated rats showed an increase in oxidative stress markers (for example, lipid peroxidation), coupled with a decrease in glutathione (GSH) and glutathione peroxidase (GPX) and catalase activities. Impaired energy metabolism was ascertained through the decrease of lactate dehydrogenase and activation of creatine kinase (CK). Elevated IL-6, TNFα, IFNγ and heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) confirmed the neuroinflammatory effect of PA. Moreover, elevation of caspase3 and DNA fragmentation proved the pro-apoptotic and neurotoxic effect of PA to rat pups[1]

Significant decrease of IL-10 (P<0.026), VEGF (P<0.005), and TNFα(P<0.005) levels and increased IL-1α (P<0.032), IL-6(P<0.028), and IFN-γ (P<0.013) levels were observed between the four studied groups. The neurotoxic effects of PPA was clearly presented as much higher IL-6, as pro-inflammatory cytokine (P<0.05), concomitant with much lower IL-10, as anti-inflammatory cytokine(P<0.015) compared to controls. Both bee pollen and propolis were effective in ameliorating the neurotoxic effects of PPA demonstrating non-significant changes of IL-6 and IL-10 when compared to control healthy hamsters.[2]

The gut microbiota and microbial metabolites influence the enteric nervous system and the central nervous system via the microbial-gut-brain axis. Increasing body of evidence suggests that disturbances in the metabolism of peripheral branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) can contribute to the development of neurodegenerative diseases through neuroinflammatory signaling. Preliminary research has shown that longitudinal changes in serum amino acid levels in mouse models of Parkinson's disease (PD) are negatively correlated with disease progression. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to determine the changes in serum levels of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) in a mouse model of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD after dietary BCAA supplementation. In our research, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to detect serum SCFA concentrations. The data were then analyzed with principal component analysis and orthogonal partial least squares discriminant analysis. Finally, the correlations of serum SCFA levels with gut and motor function in MPTP-induced PD mice were explored. Propionic acid, acetic acid, butyric acid, and isobutyric acid concentrations were elevated in MPTP + H-BCAA mice compared with MPTP mice. Propionic acid concentration was increased the most, while the isovaleric acid concentration was decreased. Propionic acid concentration was positively correlated with fecal weight and water content and negatively correlated with the pole-climbing duration. In conclusion, these results not only suggest that propionic acid may be a potential biomarker for PD, but also indicate the possibility that PD may be treated by altering circulating levels of SCFA.[3]

Propionic acid activates microglia and astrocytes[4]



1 - https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22531301/
2 - https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31733650/
3 - https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38045857/
[4] - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3747729/